Getting started with Nerdamer

Please read the documentation as nerdamer has changed.

You can see nerdamer in action at http://www.nerdamer.com/demo

All operations are done on the

nerdamer

object. You can choose something else for your convenience e.g.

$N = nerdamer

To add an equation just add it to the nerdamer object which will return a equations object which 
isn't particularly usefull at the moment other than getting its text representation.

            
                var eq = nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)');

                console.log(eq.text());
                
                //result: 
                //2*cos(x)+3*x^(2)
            
        

You can also pass in an object with known values as the second parameter.

            
                var eq = nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)',{x:6});

                console.log(eq.text());
                
                //result:
                //108+2*cos(6)
            
        

As you can see only the substitution is performed. To evaluate the result just call evaluate. 
Note that evaluate returns a text string or a number not an object.

            
                var eq = nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)',{x:6}).evaluate();

                console.log(eq);
                
                //result:
                //109.92034057330073
            
        

Alternatively you can pass an object containing known values into evaluate instead of nerdamer to get back 
the value right away. The values passed in don't have to be number the can be another equation if needed.

            
                var eq = nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)',{x:'x^2+1'});

                console.log(eq.text());
                
                //result:
                //2*cos(1+x^(2))+3*(1+x^(2))^(2)
            
        

Every time you parse an equation it's stored in nerdamer. To get a list of all the equations you just call 
nerdamer.equations().

            
                var knownValues = {x:'x^2+1'};
                nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)', knownValues );
                nerdamer('sin(x)^2+cos(x)^2', knownValues );
                
                console.log(nerdamer.equations());
                
                //result:
                //[ 46.692712758272776, 1 ]
            
        

You can request it as an object as well by passing in true. This can be convenient in some 
situations as the numbering starts at 1;

            
                var knownValues = {x:'x^2+1'};
                nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)', knownValues );
                nerdamer('sin(x)^2+cos(x)^2', knownValues );
                
                console.log(nerdamer.equations(true));
                
                //{ '1': '2*cos(1+x^(2))+3*(1+x^(2))^(2)',
                //'2': 'cos(1+x^(2))^(2)+sin(1+x^(2))^(2)' }
            
        

If you need the code as latex you can pass in true as the second parameter when requesting the equations.

            
                nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)');
                nerdamer('sin(x)^0.25+cos(x)^0.5' );
                
                console.log(nerdamer.equations(true, true));
                
                //{ '1': '3~{x}^{2}+2~\\cos\\left(x\\right)',
                //'2': '\\sin\\left(x\\right)^{\\frac{1}{4}}+\\sqrt{\\cos\\left(x\\right)}' }
            
        

You can specify a particular location when adding an equation, which is specified with the third parameter.

            
                nerdamer('x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x)');
                nerdamer('sin(x)^0.25+cos(x)^0.5' );
                nerdamer('equation-override', undefined, 2 );
                
                console.log(nerdamer.equations(true, true));
                
                //{ '1': '3~{x}^{2}+2~\\cos\\left(x\\right)',
                //'2': '-override+equation' }
            
        

This leads me to two points

    There is currently no control over the output format. If it's critical you will have to impliment 
    one yourself. I do however plan on including some form of formatter at some point
    The rules for naming variables are as follows:
        Must begin with an alpha numeric character.
        Cannot be a reserved keyword.
        Can have any number of underscores or numbers as needed.


Here's an example of reserved keywords.

            
                nerdamer.reserved();
                //result:
                //parens, cos, sin, tan, sec, csc, cot, acos, asin, atan, exp, log, abs, sqrt, diff, 
                //integrate, sec, cot, csc, pi, e
                
                or as an array
                
                nerdamer.reserved(true);
                //result:
                //[ 'parens','cos','sin','tan','sec','csc','cot','acos','asin','atan','exp','log','abs',
                // 'sqrt','diff','integrate','sec','cot','csc','pi','e' ]
            
        

A list can and should be generated by calling reserved on the nerdamer object as this will be more 
accurate and current. Most math functions are passed in as part of the equation. If you want to 
differentiate for instance you just use the equation diff.

            
                var eqs = nerdamer('diff(x^2+2*(cos(x)+x*x),x)');
                
                console.log(eqs.text());
                
                //result: 
                //-2*sin(x)+6*x
            
        

Nerdamer can also handle runtime functions. To do this use the method setFunction. 
The runtime functions do have symbolic capabilities and support for imaginary numbers. 
The setfunction method is used as follows:

nerdamer.setFunction( function_name, parameter_array, function_body ) 

For Example:

            
                //generate some points
                var f = function(x) { return 5*x-1; }
                console.log(f(1)); //4
                console.log(f(2)); //9 - value to be found
                console.log(f(7)); //34
                
                nerdamer.setFunction('interpolate',['y0','x0','y1','x1','x'],'y0+(y1-y0)*((x-x0)/(x1-x0))')
                var answer = nerdamer('interpolate(4,1,34,7,2)').evaluate();
                
                console.log(answer);
                
                //result: 9
            
        

If you need to add a constant use the setConstant method

            
                nerdamer.setConstant( 'g', 9.81);

                var weight = nerdamer('100*g').evaluate();

                console.log(weight);
                
                //result:
                //981
            
        

To delete just set it to delete

            
                nerdamer.setConstant( 'g', 'delete');
            
        

You also have the option of exporting your function to a javascript function which can be useful if you need some 
filtering from user input. Do keep in mind that the argument names are sorted alphabetically for more than one 
argument. To used it add the expression to nerdamer and use the buildFunction method.

            
                var f = nerdamer('x^2+5').buildFunction();
                console.log(f(9));
                
                //result:
                //86
            
        

Every time you add an equation to nerdamer it's stored. To list the equations currently in nerdamer call 
the equations method and delete one use the clear method and pass in the equation you want to delete. 
To clear everything pass in the string 'all'.

            
                nerdamer('n*R*T/v');
                nerdamer('mc^2');
                nerdamer('G*m1*m2/d^2');
                
                nerdamer.clear(2);
                
                console.log(nerdamer.equations(true));
                
                //result:
                //{ '1': 'R*T*n*v^(-1)', '2': 'G*d^(-2)*m1*m2' }
                
                nerdamer.clear('all');
                console.log(nerdamer.equations(true));
                
                //result:
                //{}
            
        
